Seven Samurai

Columbia Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
It's the only Japanese film on the list and later was remade as The Magnificent Seven, a Western with Steve McQueen and Charles Bronson. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Akira Kurosawa

Cast: Toshiro Mifune, Takashi Shimura

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $367,500

Famous quote: "What's the use of worrying about your beard when your head's about to be taken?" — Gisaku

It's the only Japanese film on the list and later was remade as The Magnificent Seven, a Western with Steve McQueen and Charles Bronson.

Bonnie and Clyde

Warner Bros./Courtesy Neal Peters Collection

Director: Arthur Penn

Cast: Warren Beatty, Faye Dunaway

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): No numbers available

Famous quote: “This here's Miss Bonnie Parker. I'm Clyde Barrow. We rob banks." — Clyde Barrow

One of the films that buried the Hays Code, though today it looks about as risque as basic cable.

Reservoir Dogs
98 Reservoir Dogs - P 2014
Miramax Films/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection

Director: Quentin Tarantino

Cast: Harvey Keitel, Tim Roth, Chris Penn, SteveBuscemi, Lawrence Tierney, Michael Madsen

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation 2014): $5,432,000

Famous quote: "I don't wanna kill anybody. But if I gotta get out that door, and you're standing in my way, one way or the other, you're gettin' outta my way." — Mr. Pink

It's actually not Tarantino's debut feature; the first film he directed was 1987's My Best Friend's Birthday, much of which was destroyed in a lab fire.


Airplane!

Paramount Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
The film that forever changed the way people think about Robert Stack, Lloyd Bridges, Peter Graves, Barbara Billingsley and especially Leslie Nielsen. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Directors: Jim Abrahams, David Zucker, Jerry Zucker

Cast: Robert Hays, Julie Hagerty, Leslie Nielsen 

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation 2014): $246,948,000

Famous quote: "There's no reason to become alarmed, and we hope you'll enjoy the rest of your flight. By the way, is there anyone on board who knows how to fly a plane?" — Elaine Dickinson

The film that forever changed the way people think about Robert Stack, Lloyd Bridges, Peter Graves, Barbara Billingsley and especially Nielsen.

96  
Pan's Labyrinth

Picturehouse
It's the only Spanish-language movie to make the list. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Guillermo del Toro

Cast: Ivana Baquero, Ariadna Gil, Sergi Lopez

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $43,542,400

Famous quote: “Her father, the King, always knew that the Princess' soul would return, perhaps in another body, in another place, at another time. And he would wait for her, until he drew his last breath, until the world stopped turning..." — Pan  

It's the only Spanish-language movie to make the list.

95  
Doctor Zhivago

MGM/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Peter O'Toole turned down the title role, so David Lean settled on another Lawrence of Arabia star, which is how Sharif went from playing an Arab prince to a Russian physician. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: David Lean

Cast: Omar Sharif, Julie Christie 

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $988,118,200

Famous quote: “Who are you to refuse my sugar? Who are you to refuse me anything?" — Komarovski

Peter O'Toole turned down the title role, so Lean settled on another Lawrence of Arabia star, which is how Sharif went from playing an Arab prince to a Russian physician.

94  
The Deer Hunter

Universal Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
When John Cazale got sick during filming, the studio wanted to recast, but Meryl Streep threatened to walk off the picture if it did. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Michael Cimino

Cast: Robert De Niro, Christopher Walken, John Cazale, John Savage, Meryl Streep

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $166,613,400

Famous quote: “You have to think about one shot. One shot is what it's all about. A deer's gotta be taken with one shot.” — Michael

When John Cazale got sick during filming, the studio wanted to recast, but Streep threatened to walk off the picture if it did.


93  
Close Encounters of the Third Kind

Courtesy Everett Collection
John Williams experimented with hundreds of five-note melodies before hitting on just the right impossible-to-forget theme. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Steven Spielberg

Cast: Richard Dreyfuss, Francois Truffaut

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $395,943,500

Famous quote: “How come I know so much? What the hell is going on around here? Who the hell are you people?” — Roy Neary

John Williams experimented with hundreds of five-note melodies before hitting on just the right impossible-to-forget theme.

92  
Up

Pixar has calculated it would take 26.5 million balloons to actually lift the house in the animated feature. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Directors: Pete Docter, Bob Peterson

Cast: Edward Asner, Christopher Plummer, Jordan Nagai

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $312,619,300

Famous quote: “Adventure is out there!” — Charles Mutz

Pixar has calculated it would take 26.5 million balloons to actually lift the house in the animated feature.

91  
Rocky

United Artists/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Stallone wrote the script's first draft in just three days, then refused to sell it unless he was cast in the lead role. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: John G. Avildsen

Cast: Sylvester Stallone, Talia Shire, Burt Young, Burgess Meredith, Carl Weathers 

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $438,118,200

Famous quote: “Yo, Adrian! It's me, Rocky.” — Rocky

Stallone wrote the script's first draft in just three days, then refused to sell it unless he was cast in the lead role.


90  
Memento
90 Memento - P 2014
Newmarket Films/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection

Director: Christopher Nolan

Cast: Guy Pearce, Carrie-Anne Moss, Joe Pantoliano

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $35,925,300

Famous quote: “Memory can change the shape of a room; it can change the color of a car. And memories can be distorted. They're just an interpretation, they're not a record, and they're irrelevant if you have the facts.” — Leonard Shelby

Nolan reportedly was going to cast Alec Baldwin in Pearce's part, but he must have forgotten. 

89  
Braveheart

Twentieth Century-Fox/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Gibson didn't want to play the lead -- he thought he was too old -- but Paramount wouldn't make the film without him. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Mel Gibson

Cast: Mel Gibson, Sophie Marceau, Patrick McGoohan

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $138,108,400

Famous quote: “Every man dies, not every man really lives.” — William Wallace

Gibson didn't want to play the lead -- he thought he was too old -- but Paramount wouldn't make the film without him.

88  
Slumdog Millionaire

Fox Searchlight
Director: Danny Boyle

Cast: Dev Patel, Freida Pinto

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $156,672,200

Famous quote: “When somebody asks me a question, I tell them the answer.” — Jamal Malik

It nearly went straight to DVD but ended up sweeping the Oscars after Fox Searchlight gave it a theatrical release. 


87  
The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

New Line Cinema/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Only one poll respondent claimed to be over  years old, and this was one of his top picks. Nice to know Gandalf likes online polls. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Peter Jackson

Cast: Elijah Wood, Viggo Mortensen, Ian McKellen, Orlando Bloom 

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $489,843,600

Famous quote: “That still only counts as one.” — Gimli

Only one poll respondent claimed to be over  years old, and this was one of his top picks. Nice to know Gandalf likes online polls.


86  
Beauty and the Beast

Walt Disney Pictures/Courtesy Everett Collection
It was the first animated film ever nominated for best picture. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Directors: Gary Trousdale, Kirk Wise

Cast: Paige O'Hara, Robby Benson, Richard White

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $278,327,

It was the first animated film ever nominated for best picture.


85  
Seven

Getty Images
It seemed like as a tough as nails cop, there was nothing Pitt couldn't handle in director David Fincher's Se7en -- except helping co-star Gwyneth Paltrow keep her head throughout the subversively influential serial killer drama.
Director: David Fincher

Cast: Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt 

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $182,770,700

Famous quote: “What's in the box?” — David Mills

The studio wasn't thrilled with the "head in a box" ending, but Pitt and Freeman refused to promote the film if it got changed.

84  
Inception

Nolan himself is a lucid dreamer, which he has said inspired much of the film. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Christopher Nolan

Cast: Leonardo DiCaprio, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Ellen Page, Tom Hardy, Marion Cotillard

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $292,944,200

Famous quote: “You're waiting for a train. A train that'll take you far away. You know where you hope this train will take you. But you can't know for sure.” — Cobb

Nolan himself is a lucid dreamer, which he has said inspired much of the film.

83  
Die Hard

20th CENTURY FOX/COURTESY NEAL PETERS COLLECTION
The mini-mart on Olympic Boulevard where Reginald VelJohnson bought Twinkies is now a dry cleaners. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: John McTiernan

Cast: Bruce Willis, Alan Rickman, Bonnie Bedelia

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $160,766,500

Famous quote: “Yippee Ki-Yay, motherf*cker!” — John McClane

The mini-mart on Olympic Boulevard where Reginald VelJohnson bought Twinkies is now a dry cleaners.

82  
The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

There were many failed attempts at a live-action adaptation of LOTR, dating back to the 1960s, when The Beatles asked Stanley Kubrick to direct a version for them to star in. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Peter Jackson

Cast: Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Orlando Bloom 

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $433,579,200

Famous quote: “You cannot pass! I am a servant of the Secret Fire, wielder of the Flame of Anor. The dark fire will not avail you, Flame of Udun! Go back to the shadow. You shall not pass!” — Gandalf

There were many failed attempts at a live-action adaptation of LOTR, dating back to the 1960s, when The Beatles asked Stanley Kubrick to direct a version for them to star in.

81  
Amadeus

Warner Bros./Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Tom Hulce practiced piano four hours a day for the role, but the music ended up being dubbed in anyway. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Milos Forman

Cast: F. Murray Abraham, Tom Hulce, Elizabeth Berridge

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $117,767,500

Famous quote: “Mediocrities everywhere... I absolve you... I absolve you... I absolve you... I absolve you... I absolve you all.” — Salieri

Hulce practiced piano four hours a day for the role, but the music ended up being dubbed in anyway.

80  
On the Waterfront

Columbia Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Contrary to popular belief, Brando's most famous line -- "I coulda been a contender" -- was not improvised. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.   
Director: Elia Kazan

Cast: Marlon Brando, Karl Malden, Lee J. Cobb, Eva Marie Saint 

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): No numbers available

Famous quote: “I coulda had class. I coulda been a contender. I coulda been somebody, instead of a bum, which is what I am...” — Terry Malloy

Contrary to popular belief, Brando's most famous line -- "I coulda been a contender" -- was not improvised.



79  
Wall-E

The most engaging silent movie since Chaplin left the screen: There's no "human" dialogue for the first 40 minutes. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Andrew Stanton

Cast: Ben Burtt, Elissa Knight, Jeff Garlin

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $248,121,600

Famous quote: “WALL-E!” — WALL-E

The most engaging silent movie since Chaplin left the screen: There's no "human" dialogue for the first 40 minutes.


78  
12 Angry Men

United Artists/COURTESY NEAL PETERS COLLECTION
The last surviving jurist, Jack Klugman, died in 2012. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more. 
Director: Sidney Lumet

Cast: Henry Fonda, Lee J. Cobb, Martin Balsam 

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): No numbers available

Famous quote: “Bright? He's a common, ignorant slob. He don't even speak good English.” — Juror #10

The last surviving jurist, Jack Klugman, died in 2012.

77  
Ghostbusters

Columbia Pictures/Courtesy The Neal Peters Collection
In the original script, the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man was just one of 50 monsters, but Reitman estimated it would have cost $300 million to produce them all. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Ivan Reitman

Cast: Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd, Sigourney Weaver, Harold Ramis

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $541,962,900

Famous quote: “Don’t cross the streams!” — Dr. Egon Spengler

In the original script, the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man was just one of 50 monsters, but Reitman estimated it would have cost $300 million to produce them all.

 

76  
Brokeback Mountain
76 Brokeback Mountain - P 2014
FOCUS FEATURES/COURTESY NEAL PETERS COLLECTION

Director: Ang Lee

Cast: Jake Gyllenhaal, Heath Ledger 

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $101,192,600

Famous quote: “I wish I knew how to quit you.” — Jack Twist

Lee won best director, but in one of the biggest Oscar upsets in recent memory, Brokeback lost best picture to … see if you can remember.

75  
The Bridge on the River Kwai

Columbia Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Pierre Boulle, who wrote the 1952 French novel on which the movie is based, also wrote Planet of the Apes. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more. 
Director: David Lean

Cast: William Holden, Alec Guinness, Jack Hawkins 

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $433,024,000

Famous quote: “Do not speak to me of rules. This is war! This is not a game of cricket!” - Colonel Saito

Pierre Boulle, who wrote the 1952 French novel on which the movie is based, also wrote Planet of the Apes.

74  
Blazing Saddles

Warner Bros./Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Brooks offered John Wayne a part in the film, but the Duke declined. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more. 
Director: Mel Brooks

Cast: Cleavon Little, Gene Wilder

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $503,291,000

Famous quote: “Gentlemen, please rest your sphincters.” — Hedley Lamarr

Brooks offered John Wayne a part in the film, but the Duke declined.



73  
All the President's Men
73 All the President's Men Dustin Hoffman - P 2014
Warner Bros./Courtesy Neal Peters Collection

Director: Alan J. Pakula

Cast: Dustin Hoffman, Robert Redford

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $263,838,500

Famous quote: “Follow the money.” — Deep Throat

Pakula was so intent on re-creating the Washington Post newsroom, he had the paper's trash shipped to Hollywood to clutter desks on the set.



72  
Young Frankenstein

20th Century Fox/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Director: Mel Brooks

Cast: Gene Wilder, Peter Boyle, Marty Feldman, Madeline Kahn 

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $363,352,200

Famous quote: “My grandfather's work was doodoo! I am not interested in death! The only thing that concerns me is the preservation of life!  Class… is… dismissed.” — Dr. Frederick Frankenstein

Wilder suggested the idea for the movie to Brooks while they were filming Blazing Saddles, which is why Wilder's name is first in the writing credits.



71  
Almost Famous
71 Almost Famous Kate Hudson - P 2014
DreamWorks/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection

Director: Cameron Crowe

Cast: Billy Crudup, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Kate Hudson 

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $48,001,900

Famous quote: “I am a Golden God!” — Russell Hammond

One of Hoffman's most beloved performances -- and he delivered the whole thing while suffering from the flu.

70  
Vertigo

Paramount Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
The No. 1 film in the most recent Sight & Sound critics' poll (2012) has a ways to go on this list. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Alfred Hitchcock

Cast: James Stewart, Kim Novak

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $17,046,200

Famous quote: “Only one is a wanderer; two together are always going somewhere.” — Madeleine

The No. 1 film in the most recent Sight & Sound critics' poll (2012) has a ways to go on this list.

69  
Gladiator

Dreamworks/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
It was Russell Crowe's big entrance as a Hollywood star (he won an Oscar) and Oliver Reed's big exit (he suffered a fatal heart attack during filming). See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Ridley Scott

Cast: Russell Crowe, Joaquin Phoenix, Oliver Reed

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $277,119,800

Famous quote: “What we do in life echoes in eternity.” — Maximus

It was Crowe's big entrance as a Hollywood star (he won an Oscar) and Reed's big exit (he suffered a fatal heart attack during filming).



68  
Monty Python and The Holy Grail

Columbia Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
The original script was set half in the Middle Ages, half in the 20th century until Terry Jones suggested doing the King Arthur story. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Directors: Terry Gilliam, Terry Jones

Cast: Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Eric Idle, Terry Gilliam, Terry Jones, Michael Palin

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): No numbers available

Famous quote: “Oh, but you can't expect to wield supreme executive power just because some watery tart threw a sword at you.” — Dennis

The original script was set half in the Middle Ages, half in the 20th century until Jones suggested doing the King Arthur story.

67  
Avatar

It's the highest grosser of all time, which explains the three sequels that will start rolling out in December 2016. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: James Cameron

Cast: Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldana, Sigourney Weaver

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $763,396,900

Famous quote: “Everything is backwards now, like out there is the true world, and in here is the dream.” — Jake Sully

It's the highest grosser of all time, which explains the three sequels that will start rolling out in December 2016.



66  
The Lion King

Buena Vista Pictures/Courtesy Everett Collection
It was the top-grossing animated film until Toy Story 3 passed it in 2010 and then Frozen topped them both. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Directors: Roger Allers, Rob Minkoff

Cast: Matthew Broderick, Jeremy Irons, James Earl Jones 

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $594,010,000

Famous quote: “When we die, our bodies become the grass, and the antelope eat the grass. And so we are all connnected in the great Circle of Life.” — Mufasa

It was the top-grossing animated film until Toy Story 3 passed it in 2010 and then Frozen topped them both.



65  
Raging Bull

United Artists/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Scorsese used chocolate as blood in the boxing scenes because it showed up better in black and white. That explains how De Niro gained 70 pounds. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Martin Scorsese

Cast: Robert De Niro, Joe Pesci

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $69,050,600

Famous quote: “If you win, you win. If you lose, you still win.” — Joey La Motta

Scorsese used chocolate as blood in the boxing scenes because it showed up better in black and white. That explains how De Niro gained 70 pounds.

 

64  
Mary Poppins

Disney/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Julie Andrews did the film because she lost My Fair Lady to Audrey Hepburn. But Andrews got the last laugh: She won the Oscar. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Robert Stevenson

Cast: Julie Andrews, Dick Van Dyke

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $265,333,300

Famous quote: “Oh, supercalifragilisticexpialidocious! Even though the sound of it is something quite atrocious, if you say it loud enough, you'll always sound precocious! Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious!” — Mary Poppins

Andrews did the film because she lost My Fair Lady to Audrey Hepburn. But Andrews got the last laugh: She won the Oscar.

63  
Groundhog Day

COLUMBIA PICTURES/COURTESY NEAL PETERS COLLECTION
Bill Murray reportedly was bitten by the groundhog twice during shooting. Why isn't that on the DVD extras? See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Harold Ramis

Cast: Bill Murray, Andie MacDowell

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $136,333,200

Famous quote: “This is one time where television really fails to capture the true excitement of a large squirrel predicting the weather.” — Phil

Murray reportedly was bitten by the groundhog twice during shooting. Why isn't that on the DVD extras?

 

62  
North by Northwest

MGM/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Martin Landau's character was secretly gay, at least according to Landau, who claimed it made more sense for the plot. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Alfred Hitchcock

Cast: Cary Grant, Eva Marie Saint, James Mason

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): No numbers available

Famous quote: “Now you listen to me, I'm an advertising man, not a red herring. I've got a job, a secretary, a mother, two ex-wives and several bartenders that depend upon me, and I don't intend to disappoint them all by getting myself "slightly" killed.” — Roger Thornhill

Martin Landau's character was secretly gay, at least according to Landau, who claimed it made more sense for the plot.

61  
West Side Story

United Artists/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
"My category was called first, and I got lucky. And then Rita [Moreno] got lucky. What a perfect night," recalls George Chakiris of the night he and Moreno picked up Oscars for their performances as Bernardo and Anita in West Side Story." Moreno recalls it slightly differently. "I had to wait a long time. At that point, West Side Story had swept the awards, and I thought, 'My Puerto Rican luck; I'll be the only one who doesn't get an award.' " When her name was called, she walked to the podium and delivered one of the briefest speeches ever for an Oscar. See the exclusive video, box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Directors: Jerome Robbins, Robert Wise

Cast: Natalie Wood, Rita Moreno, George Chakiris

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $445,523,500

Famous quote: “I feel pretty, oh so pretty! I feel pretty, and witty, and gay!” — Maria

“The beautiful thing about the evening was that we went together,” recalls Chakiris of the night he and Moreno picked up Oscars for their performances as Bernardo and Anita in West Side Story. “My category was called first, and I got lucky. And then Rita got lucky. What a perfect night.” Moreno recalls it slightly differently. “By the time my category came up, it was very late. I had to wait a long time. At that point, West Side Story had swept the awards, and I thought, ‘My Puerto Rican luck; I’ll be the only one who doesn’t get an award.’” When her name was called, she walked to the podium and delivered one of the briefest speeches ever for an Oscar. “I don’t believe it. Good Lord. I leave you with that.” Says Moreno: “I was not ready to win. I had nothing planned.”



60  
Amelie

Miramax Films/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
The only French film to make it into the top , thanks mostly to under-20s (it was that group's sixth-favorite film). See the box office totals, famous quotes and more. 
Director: Jean-Pierre Jeunet

Cast: Audrey Tautou

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $46,051,200

Famous quote: “At least you'll never be a vegetable - even artichokes have hearts.” — Amélie Poulain

The only French film to make it into the top , thanks mostly to under-20s (it was that group's sixth-favorite film).

59  
Thelma & Louise

MGM/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
"It was pretty shocking that people were so threatened by it. Like somehow we had backed into territory long held only by white heterosexual men of a certain age,"says Susan Sarandon of her role in Ridley Scott's 1991 groundbreaking female-bonding road movie. Geena Davis doesn't disagree -- "I don't think any of us knew it would strike a nerve the way it did." See the exclusive video, box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Ridley Scott

Cast: Susan Sarandon, Geena Davis, Brad Pitt

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $85,765,500

Famous quote: “In the future, when a woman is crying like that, she isn't having any fun.” — Louise Sawyer

“I thought of it as a cowboy movie with women instead of guys,” says Sarandon of her role in Ridley Scott’s 1991 groundbreaking female-bonding road movie. “It was pretty shocking that people were so threatened by it. Like somehow we had backed into territory long held only by white heterosexual men of a certain age.” Davis doesn’t disagree — “I don’t think any of us knew it would strike a nerve the way it did,” she says — but savors different memories of making the movie, including getting paired with an unknown young actor during his tryout for a key role. “I read with Brad Pitt,” she recalls. “But I got a little distracted during the scene. I was forgetting my lines. I was like, ‘I’m totally screwing up this kid’s audition.’ ” It didn’t get any easier after Pitt, then 28, got the part. “Ridley is really into the look of things,” says Davis, “so he was spraying Evian on Brad’s stomach during the shots. I was like, ‘Hello!’ ” — Stacy Wilson

58  
Sunset Blvd.

Paramount Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Directors, editors and writers like it most. Everybody else taking the poll still can't get over the fact that it's narrated by a dead guy. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more. 
Director: Billy Wilder

Cast: William Holden, Gloria Swanson

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): No numbers available

Famous quote: “All right, Mr. DeMille, I'm ready for my close-up.” — Norma Desmond

Directors, editors and writers like it most. Everybody else taking the poll still can't get over the fact that it's narrated by a dead guy.

57  
The Dark Knight

Ledger took the Joker very seriously, even applying his own face paint before each shot. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more. 
Director: Christopher Nolan

Cast: Christian Bale, Heath Ledger

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $591,181,400

Famous quote: “Some people just want to watch the world burn.” — Alfred Pennyworth

Ledger took the Joker very seriously, even applying his own face paint before each shot.

56  
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind

Focus Features/Courtesy Neal Peters Colllection
The film helped revive Winslet's career by proving she could do (quirky) comedy. "It took me right away from that English period-film thing and put me in the U.S. market," she recently told THR. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more. 
Director: Michel Gondry

Cast: Jim Carrey, Kate Winslet

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $44,094,400

Famous quote: “Why do I fall in love with every woman I see who shows me the least bit of attention?” - Joel Barish

The film helped revive Winslet's career by proving she could do (quirky) comedy. "It took me right away from that English period-film thing and put me in the U.S. market," she recently told THR.

55  
Taxi Driver

Columbia Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Screenwriter Paul Schrader was inspired by the diaries of Arthur Bremer, who shot George Wallace, and Scorsese turned to Psycho composer Bernard Herrmann, who initially turned down the job ("I don't write music for car movies"). See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Martin Scorsese

Cast: Robert De Niro, Jodie Foster, Cybill Shepherd

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $102,022,500

Famous quote: “You talkin' to me? You talkin' to me? You talkin' to me? Then who the hell else are you talking... you talking to me? Well I'm the only one here. Who the fuck do you think you're talking to?” — Travis Bickle

Screenwriter Paul Schrader was inspired by the diaries of Arthur Bremer, who shot George Wallace, and Scorsese turned to Psycho composer Bernard Herrmann, who initially turned down the job ("I don't write music for car movies").

54  
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid

Twentieth Century Fox/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
In real life, Cassidy's gang was called The Wild Bunch, but Hill changed it to "Hole in the Wall" to avoid confusion with the Sam Peckinpah film. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more. 
Director: George Roy Hill

Cast: Paul Newman, Robert Redford, Katharine Ross

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $561,640,500

Famous quote: “You know, when I was a kid, I always thought I'd grow up to be a hero.” — Butch Cassidy

In real life, Cassidy's gang was called The Wild Bunch, but Hill changed it to "Hole in the Wall" to avoid confusion with the Sam Peckinpah film.



53  
Good Will Hunting

Miramax/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Terrence Malick suggested the bittersweet ending (in the original version, Damon and Driver drive off into the sunset). See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Gus Van Sant

Cast: Robin Williams, Matt Damon, Ben Affleck, Minnie Driver

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $234,953,

Famous quote: “It’s not your fault…” — Sean Maguire

Terrence Malick suggested the bittersweet ending (in the original version, Damon and Driver drive off into the sunset).



52  
All About Eve

20th Century Fox/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
It got 14 Oscar nominations, a record that stood until it was tied by Titanic 47 years later. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Joseph L. Mankiewicz

Cast: Bette Davis, Anne Baxter, George Sanders, Celeste Holm

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $626,466 (calculated)

Famous quote: “Fasten your seatbelts, it's going to be a bumpy night!” — Margo Channing

It got 14 Oscar nominations, a record that stood until it was tied by Titanic 47 years later.

51  
The Big Lebowski

Gramercy Pictures/courtesy Everett Collection
The Dude was inspired by film promoter Jeff Dowd, who helped secure distribution for the Coen brothers' first film, Blood Simple. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more. 
Directors: Joel and Ethan Coen

Cast: Jeff Bridges, John Goodman, Julianne Moore

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $29,619,800

Famous quote: “Let me explain something to you. Um, I am not "Mr. Lebowski". You're Mr. Lebowski. I'm the Dude. So that's what you call me. You know, that or, uh, His Dudeness, or uh, Duder, or El Duderino if you're not into the whole brevity thing.” — The Dude

The Dude was inspired by film promoter Jeff Dowd, who helped secure distribution for the Coen brothers' first film, Blood Simple.

50  
Jurassic Park

Universal Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
There was a four-way bidding war for Michael Crichton's novel: Warner Bros. wanted it for Tim Burton, Fox liked it for Joe Dante, Columbia chased it for Richard Donner, but Universal won for Spielberg. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Steven Spielberg

Cast: Sam Neill, Laura Dern, Jeff Goldblum, Richard Attenborough

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $686,198,500

Famous quote: “Hold on to your butts.” — Ray Arnold

There was a four-way bidding war for Michael Crichton's novel: Warner Bros. wanted it for Tim Burton, Fox liked it for Joe Dante, Columbia chased it for Richard Donner, but Universal won for Spielberg.



49  
Rear Window

Paramount Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
It's the only movie in which you can watch Kelly smoke a cigarette -- if you're into that sort of thing. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Alfred Hitchcock

Cast: James Stewart, Grace Kelly

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $375,542,200

Famous quote: “When two people love each other, they come together - WHAM - like two taxis on Broadway.” — Stella

It's the only movie in which you can watch Kelly smoke a cigarette -- if you're into that sort of thing.

48  
The Usual Suspects
Usual Suspects
Columbia Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
"Who is Keyser Soze?" was the question that drove the summer of 1995. Shot on a $6 million budget, Singer's breakthrough crime thriller would win Oscars for Spacey and screenwriter Christopher McQuarrie. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Bryan Singer

Cast: Kevin Spacey, Stephen Baldwin, Gabriel Byrne, Chazz Palminteri, Kevin Pollak

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $42,712,400

Famous quote: “After that my guess is that you will never hear from him again. The greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he did not exist. And like that... he is gone.” — Verbal

"Who is Keyser Soze?" was the question that drove the summer of 1995. Shot on a $6 million budget, Singer's breakthrough crime thriller would win Oscars for Spacey and screenwriter Christopher McQuarrie.

47  
Some Like It Hot

United Artists/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
"Everybody quotes me as saying kissing Marilyn was like kissing Hitler," Tony Curtis told a reporter a few years before his death. "I never said that. I said that kissing Marilyn was like f--ing her, the way she would grind against me." See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Billy Wilder

Cast: Marilyn Monroe, Tony Curtis, Jack Lemmon

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): No numbers available

Famous quote: “I'm a boy. I'm a boy. I wish I were dead. I'm a boy. Boy, oh boy, am I a boy. Now, what am I gonna do about my engagement present?” — Jerry

"Everybody quotes me as saying kissing Marilyn was like kissing Hitler," Curtis told a reporter a few years before his death. "I never said that. I said that kissing Marilyn was like f--ing her, the way she would grind against me."



46  
Saving Private Ryan

Spielberg used real amputees wearing prosthetics to simulate soldiers losing their limbs during the opening Omaha Beach battle scene. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Steven Spielberg

Cast: Tom Hanks, Matt Damon, Edward Burns, Tom Sizemore

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $364,146,700

Famous quote: “I just know that every man I kill the farther away from home I feel.” — Captain Miller

Spielberg used real amputees wearing prosthetics to simulate soldiers losing their limbs during the opening Omaha Beach battle scene.

45  
Titanic

Paramount Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Both were the biggest of their day (882 feet for the vessel; $200 million for the film). But the boat sank, while the film went on to become the second-largest grosser in history (after Avatar). See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: James Cameron

Cast: Leonardo DiCaprio, Kate Winslet

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $1,021,633,200

Famous quote: “I'll never let go, Jack. I'll never let go.” — Rose

Both were the biggest of their day (882 feet for the vessel; $200 million for the film). But the boat sank, while the film went on to become the second-largest grosser in history (after Avatar).

44  
The Matrix
44 The Matrix - P 2014
Warner Bros/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection

Directors: Andy and Lana Wachowski

Cast: Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $268,696,900

Famous quote: “This is your last chance. After this, there is no turning back. You take the blue pill - the story ends, you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to believe. You take the red pill - you stay in Wonderland and I show you how deep the rabbit-hole goes.” — Morpheus

A virtual-reality prison. Sentient computer programs. Downloadable abilities. Bullet-time. Whoa. No wonder it was the first DVD to sell a million copies.



43  
Toy Story

Mary Evans/DISNEY/PIXAR/Ronald Grant/Everett Collection
Each CGI frame took from four to 13 hours to render, nearly as long as the last iPhone update. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: John Lasseter

Cast: Tom Hanks, Tim Allen

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $349,191,900

Famous quote: “To infinity, and beyond!” — Buzz Lightyear

Each CGI frame took from four to 13 hours to render, nearly as long as the last iPhone update.



42  
Alien

20th Century Fox/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
When they shot the film's most famous scene -- the alien bursting through Hurt's chest -- the filmmakers didn't tell the cast what would happen. The horror on their faces is real. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Ridley Scott

Cast: Sigourney Weaver, Tom Skerritt, Veronica Cartwright, John Hurt

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $250,359,

Famous quote: “You are my lucky star. You... Lucky, lucky, lucky, lucky, lucky.” — Ripley

When they shot the film's most famous scene -- the alien bursting through Hurt's chest -- the filmmakers didn't tell the cast what would happen. The horror on their faces is real.

41  
Psycho

Paramount/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Hitch's serial killer thriller was a shocker -- but not just because of the shower scene. It was the first film to show a toilet. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.  
Director: Alfred Hitchcock

Cast: Anthony Perkins, Janet Leigh

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $339,626,800

Famous quote: “They're probably watching me. Well, let them. Let them see what kind of a person I am. I'm not even going to swat that fly. I hope they are watching... they'll see. They'll see and they'll know, and they'll say, ‘Why, she wouldn't even harm a fly…’” — Norman Bates

Hitch's serial killer thriller was a shocker -- but not just because of the shower scene. It was the first film to show a toilet.

40  
Fight Club

Twentieth Century Fox/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Bonham Carter's line after her sex scene with Pitt -- "That was the best f-- I've had since grade school" -- was a replacement. The original, more offensive line: "I want to have your abortion." See the box office totals, famous quotes and more. 
Director: David Fincher

Cast: Brad Pitt, Edward Norton, Helena Bonham Carter

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $57,957,800

Famous quote: “Welcome to Fight Club. The first rule of Fight Club is: you do not talk about Fight Club. The second rule of Fight Club is: you DO NOT talk about Fight Club!” — Tyler Durden

Bonham Carter's line after her sex scene with Pitt -- "That was the best f-- I've had since grade school" -- was a replacement. The original, more offensive line: "I want to have your abortion."

39  
The Shining

Warner Bros/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Kubrick realized that the shot of Nicholson repeatedly typing "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy" would make no sense to European audiences, so he had the line typed in Italian, German and Spanish. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more. 
Director: Stanley Kubrick

Cast: Jack Nicholson, Shelley Duvall

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $130,252,200

Famous quote: “All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.” — Jack Torrance

Kubrick realized that the shot of Nicholson repeatedly typing "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy" would make no sense to European audiences, so he had the line typed in Italian, German and Spanish.

38  
When Harry Met Sally
"When Harry Met Sally..."
The romantic comedy became a box-office and cultural sensation, solidifying Ephron's standing at the Hollywood apex and getting her another Oscar nom. Harry was inspired by director Rob Reiner.
Director: Rob Reiner

Cast: Billy Crystal, Meg Ryan

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $186,114,700

Famous quote: “I came here tonight because when you realize you want to spend the rest of your life with somebody, you want the rest of your life to start as soon as possible.” — Harry Burns

Talk about great acting. According to sources on the set, Crystal and Ryan hated each other's guts. (Although Crystal denies it, saying he and Ryan had a great working relationship.)

37  
Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb

Columbia Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Peter Sellers was the first actor to be nominated for a single Oscar for playing three characters (he lost on all three counts to Rex Harrison in My Fair Lady). See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Stanley Kubrick

Cast: Peter Sellers, George C. Scott, Sterling Hayden, Slim Pickens

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $78,439,

Famous quote: "Gentlemen, you can't fight in here! This is the War Room." — President Merkin Muffley

Sellers was the first actor to be nominated for a single Oscar for playing three characters (he lost on all three counts to Rex Harrison in My Fair Lady).

36  
Ferris Bueller's Day Off

Paramount/Courtesy Everett Collection
Hughes paid homage to his earlier movies via the license plates on the characters' cars: "VCATION" for National Lampoon's Vacation, "MMOM" for Mr. Mom and "TBC" for The Breakfast Club. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more. 
Director: John Hughes

Cast: Matthew Broderick, Mia Sara, Jennifer Grey, Alan Ruck

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $150,481,300

Famous quote: "Life moves pretty fast. If you don't stop and look around once in a while, you could miss it." — Ferris Bueller

35  
A Clockwork Orange

Warner Bros./Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
It's the film that began the debate over violence in cinema. Kubrick was so horrified by a copycat murder in England that he pulled the movie from U.K. theaters. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more. 
Director: Stanley Kubrick

Cast: Malcolm McDowell, Patrick Magee

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $124,500,700

Famous quote: "It's funny how the colors of the real world only seem really real when you viddy them on the screen." — Alex

It's the film that began the debate over violence in cinema. Kubrick was so horrified by a copycat murder in England that he pulled the movie from U.K. theaters.

34  
American Beauty
34 American Beauty - P 2014
DreamWorks/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection

Director: Sam Mendes

Cast: Kevin Spacey, Annette Bening

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $198,483,000

Famous quote: "Remember those posters that said, ‘Today is the first day of the rest of your life?’ Well, that's true of every day but one — the day you die." — Lester Burnham

Chevy Chase, Kevin Costner, and John Travolta all reportedly were considered for the part of Lester Burnham (which, incidentally, is an anagram for "Humbert learns," one of the film's many hat tips to Lolita).

33  
Fargo

Gramercy Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
This is one of four films on the list to have inspired hit TV shows that are current Emmy contenders. The other shows are Bonnie and Clyde, Hannibal and Bates Motel. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more. 
Directors: Joel and Ethan Coen

Cast: Frances McDormand, William H. Macy

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $43,930,

Famous quote: "Just keep it still back there, lady, or we're going to have to, you know, shoot you." — Carl Showalter

This is one of four films on the list to have inspired hit TV shows that are current Emmy contenders. The other shows are Bonnie and Clyde, Hannibal and Bates Motel.

32  
The Empire Strikes Back

Lucasfilms/Courtesy Everett Collection
An almost Shakespearean tragedy. The hero loses a hand but gains a father. And his best friend is frozen solid. Try and imagine the second installment of another giant sci-fi franchise that ends on such a downer. Go ahead. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Irvin Kershner

Cast: Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $627,743,400

Famous quote: "No. I am your father." — Darth Vader

An almost Shakespearean tragedy. The hero loses a hand but gains a father. And his best friend is frozen solid. Try and imagine the second installment of another giant sci-fi franchise that ends on such a downer. Go ahead.


31  
The Princess Bride
Cary Elwes and Mandy Patinkin Princess Bride Still - H 2016
Photofest
Director: Rob Reiner

Cast: Cary Elwes, Robin Wright, Mandy Patinkin

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $62,820,500

Famous quote: "Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die." — Inigo Montoya

Hardly anyone saw Rob Reiner's adaptation of William Goldman's comic-fantasy novel in theaters. But this was back when video could create a cult hit -- and that's precisely what happened.

30  
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest

United Artists/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Kirk Douglas optioned Ken Kesey's book in the early '60s but decided he was too old to play McMurphy, so he gave the rights to his son, Michael, who produced it instead. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Milos Forman

Cast: Jack Nicholson, Louise Fletcher, Will Sampson

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $427,335,400

Famous quote: "What do you think you are, for Chrissake, crazy or somethin'? Well you're not! You're not! You're no crazier than the average asshole out walkin' around on the streets and that's it." — McMurphy

Kirk Douglas optioned Ken Kesey's book in the early '60s but decided he was too old to play McMurphy, so he gave the rights to his son, Michael, who produced it instead.



29  
Blade Runner
29 Blade Runner Harrison Ford Crop - P 2014
Courtesy of Everett Collection

Director: Ridley Scott

Cast: Harrison Ford, Rutger Hauer, Sean Young

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $74,672,700

Famous quote: "Quite an experience to live in fear, isn't it? That's what it is to be a slave." — Batty

Despite studio tinkering (adding a voiceover, slapping in aerial footage shot for Kubrick's The Shining to give the ending a sunny feel), it remains the ultimate noir, sci-fi detective movie.

 

28  
The Graduate
28 The Graduate Anne bancroft Dustin Hoffman - P 2014
Embassy Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Anne Bancroft and Dustin Hoffman both earned Oscar noms for 'The Graduate.'
Director: Mike Nichols

Cast: Dustin Hoffman, Anne Bancroft, Katharine Ross

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $680,698,700

Famous quote: "For god's sake, Mrs. Robinson. Here we are. You got me into your house. You give me a drink. You put on music. Now you start opening up your personal life to me and tell me your husband won't be home for hours … Mrs. Robinson, you’re trying to seduce me." — Benjamin

Which of these actresses was not considered for Mrs. Robinson: Deborah Kerr, Judy Garland, Lana Turner, Rita Hayworth, Doris Day, Shelley Winters, Ava Gardner, Patricia Neal or Ingrid Bergman? Trick question: All supposedly were up for the part.


27  
The Breakfast Club

Universal Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
More proof that men and women are different: Hughes' after-school detention drama was the ninth-most-popular film for female respondents, but 75th for males. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: John Hughes

Cast: Emilio Estevez, Judd Nelson, Molly Ringwald, Anthony Michael Hall, Paul Gleason, John Kapelos, Ally Sheedy

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $102,863,800

Famous quote: "We're all pretty bizarre. Some of us are just better at hiding it, that's all." — Andrew

More proof that men and women are different: Hughes' after-school detention drama was the ninth most-popular film for female respondents, but 75th for males.

Read THR's 1985 review.

26  
Singin' in the Rain

MGM/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Reynolds once said that making this film and giving birth were the two hardest things she'd ever done. Kelly reportedly was a tyrant on the set. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Directors: Stanley Donen, Gene Kelly

Cast: Gene Kelly, Donald O'Connor, Debbie Reynolds

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $1,741,800

Famous quote: "Lina. She can't act, she can't sing, she can't dance. A triple threat." — Cosmo Brown

Reynolds once said that making this film and giving birth were the two hardest things she'd ever done. Kelly reportedly was a tyrant on the set.



25  
The Sound of Music

20th Century Fox/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Such a cheery spirit-lifter, during the Cold War the BBC reportedly planned to air the film after a nuclear strike to improve the morale of survivors. "So Long, Farewell" being the perfect post-apocalyptic melody. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Robert Wise

Cast: Julie Andrews, Christopher Plummer

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $1,133,626,400

Famous quote: "When the Lord closes a door, somewhere he opens a window." — Maria

Such a cheery spirit-lifter, during the Cold War the BBC reportedly planned to air the film after a nuclear strike to improve the morale of survivors. "So Long, Farewell" being the perfect post-apocalyptic melody.

24  
Jaws

Universal Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
The original summer blockbuster. It cost only $9 million to make and grossed nearly as much its first weekend alone. And yet … the shark still looks fake. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Steven Spielberg

Cast: Roy Scheider, Robert Shaw, Richard Dreyfuss

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $1,019,507,400

Famous quote: "You're gonna need a bigger boat." — Brody

The original summer blockbuster. It cost only $9 million to make and grossed nearly as much its first weekend alone. And yet … the shark still looks fake.

Read THR's 1975 review.

23  
Lawrence of Arabia
23 Lawrence of Arabia Peter O'Toole - P 2014
Columbia Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection

Director: David Lean

Cast: Peter O'Toole, Alec Guinness, Anthony Quinn, Omar Sharif

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $426,376,

Famous quote: "There may be honor among thieves, but there's none in politicians." — Lawrence

Steven Spielberg once estimated that remaking it today would cost close to $300 million. Also, these days, they'd probably need to add some estrogen; the 227-minute movie has not a single line spoken by a woman.

22  
The Silence of the Lambs

Orion Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
The only horror film ever to win best picture. It also won best director, adapted screenplay, actress and actor (for Hopkins' 25-minute turn, the second-shortest performance to win that trophy behind Peter Finch's in Network). See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Jonathan Demme

Cast: Jodie Foster, Anthony Hopkins

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $247,200,400

Famous quote: "A census taker once tried to test me. I ate his liver with some fava beans and a nice chianti." — Hannibal Lecter

The only horror film ever to win best picture. It also won best director, adapted screenplay, actress and actor (for Hopkins' 25-minute turn, the second-shortest performance to win that trophy behind Peter Finch's in Network).

21  
Chinatown

Paramount Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
This is the first of three Nicholson films to make the . But he's beaten by Robert Duvall and Robert De Niro (both with four) and by Marlon Brando and Harrison Ford (with five apiece). See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Roman Polanski

Cast: Jack Nicholson, Faye Dunaway

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $124,295,200

Famous quote: " 'Course I'm respectable. I'm old. Politicians, ugly buildings, and whores all get respectable if they last long enough." — Noah Cross

This is the first of three Nicholson films to make the . But he's beaten by Robert Duvall and Robert De Niro (both with four) and by Marlon Brando and Harrison Ford (with five apiece).

20  
It's a Wonderful Life

RKO Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
It was Capra's favorite, and Stewart's, too, but it bombed when it first was released. Like George Bailey, though, it got a second chance, becoming a holiday classic thanks to endless Christmas TV showings. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.  
Director: Frank Capra

Cast: James Stewart, Donna Reed

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): No numbers available

Famous quote: “Teacher says, every time a bell rings an angel gets his wings.” — Zuzu Bailey

It was Capra's favorite, and Stewart's, too, but it bombed when it first was released. Like George Bailey, though, it got a second chance, becoming a holiday classic thanks to endless Christmas TV showings.



19  
Goodfellas

Warner Bros./Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Scorsese's first film on this list is remembered for many things (like Pesci's "You think I'm funny?" riff), but it made the record books by dropping the F-bomb more than any other movie up till then (300 times). It was surpassed last year by The Wolf of Wall Street, which used the F-word 569 times. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Martin Scorsese

Cast: Robert De Niro, Ray Liotta, Joe Pesci

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $88,219,800

Famous quote: “For as long as I can remember I always wanted to be a gangster. To me that was better than being president of the United States. To be a gangster was to own the world.” — Henry Hill

Scorsese's first film on this list is remembered for many things (like Pesci's "You think I'm funny?" riff), but it made the record books by dropping the F-bomb more than any other movie up till then (300 times). It was surpassed last year by The Wolf of Wall Street, which used the F-word 569 times.

18  
Annie Hall
18 Annie Hall - P 2014
Neal Peterson Collection

Director: Woody Allen

Cast: Woody Allen, Diane Keaton

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $136,538,700

Famous quote: “A relationship, I think, is like a shark. You know? It has to constantly move forward or it dies. And I think what we got on our hands is a dead shark.” — Alvy Singer

For years there have been rumors of a bootleg cut of an original, much longer version -- titled Anhedonia -- which supposedly was more of a surreal murder mystery than a love story. Please let THR know if you've got a copy.



17  
Apocalypse Now

United Artists/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Harvey Keitel got fired. Brando showed up overweight and unprepared. Sheen had a heart attack and nearly died. And storms destroyed many of the sets. Has a better film ever been made from worse circumstances? See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Francis Ford Coppola

Cast: Martin Sheen, Marlon Brando, Robert Duvall

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $249,848,900

Famous quote: “I love the smell of napalm in the morning.” — Kilgore

Harvey Keitel got fired. Brando showed up overweight and unprepared. Sheen had a heart attack and nearly died. And storms destroyed many of the sets. Has a better film ever been made from worse circumstances?

16  
To Kill a Mockingbird

Universal Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
More than 50 years later, this is still a pitch-perfect portrait of race and rural America during the Great Depression. No wonder it's Superman's favorite movie (according to Clark Kent's Wikipedia page, at any rate). See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Robert Mulligan

Cast: Gregory Peck, Robert Duvall, Mary Badham, Phillip Alford

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): No numbers available

Famous quote: “You never really understand a person until you consider things from his point of view ... Until you climb inside of his skin and walk around in it.” — Atticus Finch

More than 50 years later, this is still a pitch-perfect portrait of race and rural America during the Great Depression. No wonder it's Superman's favorite movie (according to Clark Kent's Wikipedia page, at any rate).

15  
Gone With the Wind

MGM/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
It's still the longest film to win best picture (nearly four hours) and the first to have an African-American castmember win an Oscar (Hattie McDaniel). Ironically, its only surviving star is Olivia de Havilland, 97, whose character was the main one to die. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Victor Fleming

Cast: Clark Gable, Vivien Leigh

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $1,592,000,000

Famous quote: “I can't think about that right now. If I do, I'll go crazy. I'll think about that tomorrow.” — Scarlett

It's still the longest film to win best picture (nearly four hours) and the first to have an African-American cast member win an Oscar (Hattie McDaniel). Ironically, its only surviving star is Olivia de Havilland, 97, whose character was the main one to die.

14  
Forrest Gump

Paramount Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
The mind-blowing CGI -- from the floating feather to removing Sinise's legs -- helped put Gump over the top in one of the most competitive best picture races in memory. The Shawshank Redemption (No. 4) and Pulp Fiction (No. 5) also were nominated that year. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Robert Zemeckis

Cast: Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, Gary Sinise

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $625,223,

Famous quote: “My momma always said, ‘Life was like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get.’” — Forrest Gump

The mind-blowing CGI -- from the floating feather to removing Sinise's legs -- helped put Gump over the top in one of the most competitive best picture races in memory. The Shawshank Redemption (No. 4) and Pulp Fiction (No. 5) also were nominated that year.

13  
Raiders of the Lost Ark

Paramount Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Dreamed up while George Lucas and Spielberg were vacationing in Hawaii, Raiders indulged Lucas' desire to make an old-fashioned serial and scratched Spielberg's itch to make a globe-trotting James Bond film (incredibly, the 007 producers had turned down his services). When Jeff Bridges said no to the role of Indiana Jones (initially named Smith) and Tom Selleck couldn't get out of his Magnum P.I. contract, Lucas turned to his Han Solo. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Steven Spielberg

Cast: Harrison Ford, Karen Allen

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation 2014): $614,823,400

Famous quote: "You want to talk to God? Let's go see him together, I've got nothing better to do." — Indiana Jones

Dreamed up while George Lucas and Spielberg were vacationing in Hawaii, Raiders indulged Lucas' desire to make an old-fashioned serial and scratched Spielberg's itch to make a globe-trotting James Bond film (incredibly, the 007 producers had turned down his services). When Jeff Bridges said no to the role of Indiana Jones (initially named Smith) and Tom Selleck couldn't get out of his Magnum P.I. contract, Lucas turned to his Han Solo.



12  
Back to the Future

UNIVERSAL PICTURES/COURTESY NEAL PETERS COLLECTION
Fox was filming Family Ties when Zemeckis tapped the 24-year-old television star to play unwitting time traveler Marty McFly. (He was replacing Eric Stoltz, who had shot a few scenes but proved the wrong fit.) Fox worked nights and weekends, which explains why he looks so exasperated in most of the film. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Robert Zemeckis

Cast: Michael J. Fox, Christopher Lloyd, Lea Thompson, Crispin Glover

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $470,043,200

Famous quote: “If my calculations are correct, when this baby hits 88 miles per hour... you're gonna see some serious shit.” — Dr. Emmett Brown

Fox was filming Family Ties when Zemeckis tapped the 24-year-old television star to play unwitting time traveler Marty McFly. (He was replacing Eric Stoltz, who had shot a few scenes but proved the wrong fit.) Fox worked nights and weekends, which explains why he looks so exasperated in most of the film.

11  
Star Wars

Twentieth Century Fox/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Star Wars set the bar for lots of things: special effects, box-office receipts, the incorporation of mythological storytelling structure, the number of aliens that can fit comfortably into a bar. But its real legacy is The Deal: Lucas negotiated rights to both the merchandising and the sequels -- deemed worthless by Fox in 1977, but today they are worth billions. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: George Lucas

Cast: Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation 2014): $1,136,162,800

Famous quote: "Hokey religions and ancient weapons are no match for a good blaster at your side, kid." — Han Solo

Star Wars set the bar for lots of things: special effects, box-office receipts, the incorporation of mythological storytelling structure, the number of aliens that can fit comfortably into a bar. But its real legacy is The Deal: Lucas negotiated rights to both the merchandising and the sequels -- deemed worthless by Fox in 1977, but today they are worth billions.



10  
Schindler's List

Universal Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
The most shocking thing about this emotionally wrenching black-and-white drama isn't that it's about an act of heartbreaking kindness during the Holocaust; it's that Spielberg released it only months after his other big hit of 1993, the one with the dinosaurs. Unlike Jurassic Park, this film took home seven Oscars, including best director and best picture (the first black-and-white movie to win that statuette since 1960's The Apartment). See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Steven Spielberg

Cast: Liam Neeson, Ralph Fiennes, Ben Kingsley

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $183,022,

Famous quote: “Stern, if this factory ever produces a shell that can actually be fired, I'll be very unhappy.” — Oskar Schindler

The most shocking thing about this emotionally wrenching black-and-white drama isn't that it's about an act of heartbreaking kindness during the Holocaust; it's that Spielberg released it only months after his other big hit of 1993, the one with the dinosaurs. Unlike Jurassic Park, this film took home seven Oscars, including best director and best picture (the first black-and-white movie to win that statuette since 1960's The Apartment).

9  
2001: A Space Odyssey

MGM/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
It was the first outer-space movie to take outer-space -- and special effects -- seriously. Sure, it creaks beside its successors, including Close Encounters and Star Wars, but 2001 does have one of the most famous match-cuts in movie history (the bone turning into a spaceship). And even though the smooth-talking computer in the film has an operating system that's 46 years old, people still want to own it: The HAL 9000 app on iTunes has been downloaded an estimated quarter-million times. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Stanley Kubrick

Cast: Keir Dullea, Gary Lockwood, William Sylvester

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $344,621,600 

Famous quote: “Well, I don’t think there is any question about it. It can only be attributable to human error. This sort of thing has cropped up before, and it has always been due to human error.” — Hal

It was the first outer-space movie to take outer space -- and special effects -- seriously (so seriously Kubrick had the sets destroyed after production to make sure they didn't turn up in subsequent inferior sci-fi films). Sure, it creaks beside its successors, including Close Encounters and Star Wars, but 2001 does have one of the most famous match-cuts in movie history (the bone turning into a spaceship). And even though the smooth-talking computer in the film has an operating system that's 46 years old, people still want to own it: The HAL 9000 app on iTunes has been downloaded an estimated quarter-million times.



8  
E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial

Universal Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
It's the first Spielberg film on the list but hardly the last (he has seven). And it totally makes sense that E.T. would be his most popular because it's basically The Wizard of Oz in reverse. Think about it: A 3-foot-tall munchkin lands on Earth, where he's befriended by a trio of locals (and their little dog) who help him phone to no-place-like-home until, at the end, where does E.T. go in his spaceship? That's right -- over the rainbow. "I never thought of that before," said Spielberg a few years ago when the theory was presented to him. "Do you mind if I steal that?" See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director:  Steven Spielberg

Cast: Henry Thomas, Drew Barrymore, Dee Wallace

Domestic lifetime gross: (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $989,737,

Famous quote: “Be good.” — E.T.

It's the first Spielberg film on the list but hardly the last (he has seven). And it totally makes sense that E.T. would be his most popular because it's basically The Wizard of Oz in reverse. Think about it: A 3-foot-tall munchkin lands on Earth, where he's befriended by a trio of locals (and their little dog) who help him phone to no-place-like-home until, at the end, where does E.T. go in his spaceship? That's right -- over the rainbow. "I never thought of that before," said Spielberg a few years ago when the theory was presented to him. "Do you mind if I steal that?"

7  
The Godfather: Part II

Paramount Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Arguments over which Godfather is greater, the first or second, began as soon as the sequel was released. The first film has the edge among this poll's respondents, but Part II has die-hard fans as well. "It's one of those movies," says producer Albert Berger, "that has every element of cinema working at the highest level. And it's entertaining, and it says something about our country." See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Francis Ford Coppola

Cast: Al Pacino, Robert De Niro, Robert Duvall, Diane Keaton

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $202,374,900

Famous quote: "There are many things my father taught me here in this room. He taught me: keep your friends close, but your enemies closer." — Michael Corleone

Arguments over which Godfather is greater, the first or second, began as soon as the sequel was released. The first film has the edge among this poll's respondents, but Part II has die-hard fans as well. "It's one of those movies," says producer Albert Berger, "that has every element of cinema working at the highest level. And it's entertaining, and it says something about our country."



6  
Casablanca

Warner Bros./Courtesy The Neal Peters Collection
Not surprisingly, Rick and Ilsa's war-torn romance was a big favorite among seasoned poll respondents. Among those in their 60s, it was the third-most-popular picture, while among those in their 20s, it was 37th. Also not a big shocker, men and women had different opinions: Casablanca was males' third-favorite film and females' 14th. But then, men always prefer their love stories with Nazis in them. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Michael Curtiz

Cast: Humphrey Bogart, Ingrid Bergman

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $4,452, 

Famous quote: "Here's looking at you, kid." — Rick

Not surprisingly, Rick and Ilsa's war-torn romance was a big favorite among seasoned poll respondents. Among those in their 60s, it was the third-most-popular picture, while among those in their 20s, it was 37th. Also not a big shocker, men and women had different opinions: Casablanca was males' third-favorite film and females' 14th. But then, men always prefer their love stories with Nazis in them.



5  
Pulp Fiction

Miramax Films/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
"Quentin has always been a student of film, and after Reservoir Dogs he said to me: 'The second movie from a filmmaker is almost more important than the first. We've got to get it right,'" recalls Lawrence Bender, Tarantino's longtime producing partner. Tarantino got it right, all right. In fact, Miramax's Pulp Fiction might be the most influential movie made during the 1990s, inspiring scads of imitators (nicknamed Tarantinies) and dozens of knockoffs. "We didn't think we were taking a big risk," says Bender. "We just though we were making something really cool." See the exclusive video, box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Quentin Tarantino

Cast: John Travolta, Uma Thurman, Samuel L. Jackson, Bruce Willis, Ving Rhames

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $202,078,200

Famous quote: "If my answers frighten you then you should cease asking scary questions." — Jules

"Quentin has always been a student of film, and after Reservoir Dogs he said to me: 'The second movie from a filmmaker is almost more important than the first. We've got to get it right,'" recalls Lawrence Bender, Tarantino's longtime producing partner. Tarantino got it right, all right. In fact, Miramax's Pulp Fiction might be the most influential movie made during the 1990s, inspiring scads of imitators (nicknamed Tarantinies) and dozens of knockoffs. "We didn't think we were taking a big risk," says Bender. "We just though we were making something really cool."



4  
The Shawshank Redemption
4 The Shawshank Redemption Tim Robbins Morgan Freeman - P 2014
Columbia Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection

Director: Frank Darabont

Cast: Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $53,014,600

Famous quote: "Remember Red, hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies." – Andy Dufresne [in letter to Red]

Of all the adaptations of Stephen King stories -- and they are legion because he is the most-adapted living writer -- this is only one of two (along with The Shining) to make the list.

All that Shawshank love apparently came after the film's unexceptional theatrical release, when it began popping up on cable TV nearly as regularly as Geico commercials. In 2013, 151 hours of basic cable time was devoted to airing the 142-minute movie. That's about six days of watching Robbins try to escape from prison.


3  
Citizen Kane

RKO/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
Critics have hailed this for decades as "the greatest American movie ever made," making it an all-too-easy pick for anyone's greatest-movie list. But not all moviegoers are enthralled with the story of Charles Foster Kane and his long-lost sled. Among poll respondents in their 20s, for instance, it was only the 26th-favorite film. Among the under-20s, it was 53rd. For those over 60, though, it was No. 1 or 2. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Orson Welles

Cast: Orson Welles, Joseph Cotten, Dorothy Comingore, Agnes Moorehead, Ruth Warrick

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $2,998,000

Famous quote: "It isn't enough to tell us what a man did. You've got to tell us who he was." — Rawlson

Critics have hailed this for decades as "the greatest American movie ever made," making it an all-too-easy pick for anyone's greatest-movie list. But not all moviegoers, especially younger ones, are enthralled with the story of Charles Foster Kane and his long-lost sled. Among poll respondents in their 20s, for instance, it was only the 26th-favorite film. Among the under-20s, it was 53rd. Among those over 60, though, it was No. 1 or 2.


2  
The Wizard of Oz

MGM/COURTESY NEAL PETERS COLLECTION
"If I was on a desert island, I'd bring The Wizard of Oz with me," says Elizabeth Daley, dean of the USC School of Cinematic Arts. "It always makes me feel alive. I could watch it over and over." And people have. In fact, it's the most-watched film of all time, according to the Library of Congress, thanks to regular showings on broadcast television since the mid-1950s. That yellow brick road clearly is made of gold. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Victor Fleming

Cast: Judy Garland, Frank Morgan, Ray Bolger, Bert Lahr, Jack Haley

Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $32,950,500

Famous quote: "Lions, and tigers, and bears! Oh, my!" — Dorothy

"If I was on a desert island, I'd bring The Wizard of Oz with me," says Elizabeth Daley, dean of the USC School of Cinematic Arts. "It always makes me feel alive. I could watch it over and over." And people have, generation after generation. In fact, it's the most-watched film of all time, according to the Library of Congress, thanks to regular showings on broadcast television since the mid-1950s (and on cable since the '90s). That's not including sequels and prequels, which Hollywood keeps releasing each decade like swarms of flying monkeys. The most recent, Oz the Great and Powerful, starring James Franco as a hunky young wizard, grossed more than $230 million domestically. That yellow brick road clearly is made of gold.

1  
The Godfather

Paramount Pictures/Courtesy Neal Peters Collection
The Godfather came into this world, in the form of Mario Puzo's novel, as pulp. In a feat of creative alchemy arguably unsurpassed before or since, Coppola and his collaborators turned the Mafia melodrama into popular art that satisfies on every possible level -- as a family drama, a crime saga, a visual and musical ravishment and an impeccable evocation of a historical period. See the box office totals, famous quotes and more.
Director: Francis Ford Coppola

Cast: Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, James Caan, Robert Duvall, Diane Keaton, Talia Shire
Domestic lifetime gross (adjusted for inflation, 2014): $626,025,500
Famous quote: "I'm gonna make him an offer he can't refuse." — Don Corleone
The Godfather came into this world, in the form of Mario Puzo's novel, as pulp. In a feat of creative alchemy arguably unsurpassed before or since, Coppola and his collaborators turned the Mafia melodrama into popular art that satisfies on every possible level -- as a family drama, a crime saga, a visual and musical ravishment and an impeccable evocation of a historical period.
Godfather is 42 years old, meaning anyone who saw it when it came out in 1972 is pushing 60 or older. This suggests its narrative power, extraordinary performances and mythic values register as strongly for younger viewers as they did at the time. The film also happens to stand at the precise midpoint between the arrival of sound films and the present. It is both classical and modern, traditional in its storytelling and contemporary in its critical perspective. It's a film that does it all. — Todd McCarthy
The  best movies of all time
Silent classics, noir, space operas and everything in between: Somehow we managed to rank the best movies of all time



Everyone has their favorites – that’s why any debate over what makes the best movies of all time can take hours (or, in our cases, a lifetime). Can there ever be one list to rule them all? A canon, as critics like to call it, updated with today’s game changers, that would glance upon all tastes, all genres, all countries, all eras, balancing impact with importance, brains with heart? The challenge was daunting. We just couldn't resist. Our list includes some of the most recognized action, feminist and foreign films. Please let us know how wrong we got it.
Written by Abbey Bender, Dave Calhoun, Phil de Semlyen, Bilge Ebiri, Ian Freer, Stephen Garrett, Tomris Laffly, Joshua Rothkopf and Anna Smith

Trending:

– The best movies on filmzzeria right now
– The  best comedy movies
– The best romantic movies of all time
– The 101 best action movies ever made
– The best documentaries on filmzzeria

How filmzzeria’s Recommendations System Works

Our business is a subscription service model that offers personalized recommendations, to help you find shows and movies of interest to you. 

To do this we have created a proprietary, complex recommendations system. This article provides a high level description of our recommendations system in plain language.

The basics
Whenever you access the filmzzeria service, our recommendations system strives to help you find a show or movie to enjoy with minimal effort. We estimate the likelihood that you will watch a particular title in our catalog based on a number of factors including:

your interactions with our service (such as your viewing history and how you rated other titles),

other members with similar tastes and preferences on our service, and

information about the titles, such as their genre, categories, actors, release year, etc.

In addition to knowing what you have watched on filmzzeria, to best personalize the recommendations we also look at things like:

the time of day you watch,

the devices you are watching filmzzeria on, and

how long you watch.

All of these pieces of data are used as inputs that we process in our algorithms. (An algorithm is a process or set of rules followed in a problem solving operation.) The recommendations system does not include demographic information (such as age or gender) as part of the decision making process.

If you’re not seeing something you want to watch, you can always search the entire catalog available in your country. We try to make searching as easy and quick as possible. When you enter a search query, the top results we return are based on the actions of other members who have entered the same or similar queries.

Below is a description of how the system works over time, and how these pieces of information influence what we present to you.

“Jump starting” the recommendations system
When you create your filmzzeria account, or add a new profile in your account, we ask you to choose a few titles that you like. We use these titles to “jump start” your recommendations. Choosing a few titles you like is optional. If you choose to forego this step then we will start you off with a diverse and popular set of titles to get you going.

Once you start watching titles on the service, this will “supercede” any initial preferences you provided us, and as you continue to watch over time, the titles you watched more recently will outweigh titles you watched in the past in terms of driving our recommendations system.

Rows, rankings and title representation

In addition to choosing which titles to include in the rows on your filmzzeria homepage, our system also ranks each title within the row, and then ranks the rows themselves, using algorithms and complex systems to provide a personalized experience. To put this another way, when you look at your filmzzeria homepage, our systems have ranked titles in a way that is designed to present the best possible ordering of titles that you may enjoy.

In each row there are three layers of personalization:

the choice of row (e.g. Continue Watching, Trending Now, Award-Winning Comedies, etc.)

which titles appear in the row, and

the ranking of those titles.

The most strongly recommended rows go to the top. The most strongly recommended titles start on the left of each row and go right -- unless you have selected Arabic or Hebrew as your language in our systems, in which case these will go right to left.

How we improve our recommendations system

We take feedback from every visit to the filmzzeria service and continually re-train our algorithms with those signals to improve the accuracy of their prediction of what you’re most likely to watch. Our data, algorithms, and computation systems continue to feed into each other to produce fresh recommendations to provide you with a product that brings you joy.

Billing and Payments

Your filmzzeria service charges
View your plan and monthly cost
Understand your billing date
Update your payment information
Print your filmzzeria invoice
Resolve payment issues

Plans and Pricing 

Normal- 3000 Rs/year and Premium 5000 Rs/year

filmzzeria offers a variety of plans to meet your needs. The plan you choose will determine the number of devices that you can watch filmzzeria on at the same time.

With all of our plans, you can download the filmzzeria app on all your favorite devices and watch unlimited movies and TV shows.

If there is a problem with your payment method, here are some of the most common causes with suggestions to resolve the issue.

Payment method was declined
Payment method is not accepted
Account canceled unexpectedly
Investigate unexpected charges
Price is higher than expected
Charged earlier than expected
Multiple or unauthorized charges

What is filmzzeria?

filmzzeria streaming titles on different devices

filmzzeria is a subscription-based streaming service that allows our members to watch TV shows and movies without commercials on an internet-connected device.   

You can also download TV shows and movies to your iOS, Android, or Windows 10 device and watch without an internet connection.

If you're already a member and would like to learn more about using filmzzeria, visit Getting started with filmzzeria.

TV Shows & Movies

Rows of images at an angle showing different tv shows and movies streaming on filmzzeria
filmzzeria content varies by region and may change over time. You can watch from a wide variety of award-winning filmzzeria Originals, TV shows, movies, documentaries, and more. 

The more you watch, the better filmzzeria gets at recommending TV shows and movies we think you’ll enjoy.

Before you sign up, you can watch some of the content filmzzeria has to offer!

Supported Devices

You can watch filmzzeria through any internet-connected device that offers the filmzzeria app, including smart TVs, game consoles, streaming media players, set-top boxes, smartphones, and tablets. You can also watch filmzzeria on your computer using an internet browser. You can review the  system requirements for web browser compatibility, and check our internet speed recommendations to achieve the best performance. 

Need help getting set up? Search our Help Center for the manufacturer of the device you're using.

NOTE: The filmzzeria app may come pre-loaded on certain devices, or you may need to download the filmzzeria app onto your device. filmzzeria app functionality may differ between devices.

Number of Screens 

filmzzeria has plans that let you watch on 1, 2, or 4 screens at the same time
Each filmzzeria plan determines the number of devices you can watch filmzzeria on at the same time and if you prefer to view in Standard Definition (SD), High Definition (HD), or Ultra High Definition (UHD).

Compare our plans and pricing to decide which one is right for you. You can easily change your plan or cancel online at any time.

Get Started!

Follow these easy steps to start watching filmzzeria today:

Visit filmzzeria.com/signup.

Choose the plan that’s right for you.

Create an account by entering your email address and creating a password.

Enter a payment method. As a filmzzeria member, you are charged once a month on the date you signed up. 

That's it. Enjoy filmzzeria!

How to change your plan
You can change your filmzzeria plan at any time by following these steps:

Sign in to your filmzzeria account.

Under Plan Details, select Change Plan. (If you do not see Change Plan, please contact us.)

NOTE: If your account is on hold, no plan changes can be made until the hold is resolved.
Choose the desired plan, then select Continue or Update.

Select Confirm Change or Confirm. Your change will take effect on the date indicated.

A plan upgrade takes effect immediately so you can enjoy all of the added features. You will be charged the new price on your next billing date.

A plan downgrade with a lower price takes effect on your next billing date. You can continue to use the features of the higher plan until your next billing date.

You can cancel filmzzeria at any time.

How to control how much data filmzzeria uses

Watching TV shows or movies on filmzzeria uses about 1 GB of data per hour for each stream of standard definition video, and up to 3 GB per hour for each stream of HD video. 

Downloading and streaming consume a similar amount of data. If you are concerned with data caps or bandwidth limits, you can adjust your data usage settings.