hello   
Hi, I am glad! You are talking to me. 

hi
Hi, I am glad! You are talking to me. 

greetings 
Hi, I am glad! You are talking to me. 

sup
Hi, I am glad! You are talking to me.
  
what's up
Hi, I am glad! You are talking to me.
  
hey
Hi, I am glad! You are talking to me. 

Bye
Bye! Have a great day ahead!

Thank you
Thank you! See you again!!

What is Filmzzeria?
Filmzzeria is the world’s leading subscription service for watching TV episodes and movies. It allows subscribers to gain access to unlimited TV shows and movies anytime, anywhere.

Is Filmzzeria a Premium Rate Service (PRS)?
No, Filmzzeria is not a Premium Rate Service.

What are the supported devices?
Smart TVs, Streaming Media Players, Game consoles, Set-top Boxes, Blu-ray Players, Smartphones & Tablets, PCs & Laptops.

Can I access Filmzzeria on more than one device?
Yes you can. The number of screens you can watch Filmzzeria on simultaneously depends on the subscription package you have chosen.

If I cancel my Filmzzeria subscription before it ends, will it be pro-rated?
No, subscription will not be pro-rated for any month that you have already started. However, you will be able to enjoy your subscription until it expires. Once you cancel, you will not be billed for subsequent months.

I have an existing Filmzzeria account. Can I still subscribe to Filmzzeria that is offered to airtel customers? Will I still be able to enjoy the first month free subscription from Filmzzeria?
Yes, you can still subscribe to Filmzzeria and have the subscription fee charged to your airtel bill. An email/SMS will be provided upon successful subscription to link your existing Filmzzeria account.However, you will not be able to enjoy the first month free subscription from Filmzzeria again. This promotion is only applicable to first time subscribers.

I have signed up to Filmzzeria using my mobile line. If I change my mobile number, will it affect my Filmzzeria subscription?
No, changing your mobile number will not affect your Filmzzeria subscription. Filmzzeria recognises customers through the email customers have provided when they created a Filmzzeria account.

If I terminate my Postpaid Mobile line/Mobile Broadband/Fibre Broadband service, will my Filmzzeria subscription end automatically?
Customers are billed in advance for a 30-day period. If you terminate your service, your Filmzzeria subscription will be cancelled and you will not be billed for subsequent months.However, subscribers will still be entitled to Filmzzeria services till the end of their 30-day period.

Does the Filmzzeria promotion of free subscription for first month apply if I sign up for Filmzzeria?
Yes, it will still apply. You will be able to enjoy the free subscription for the first month.


What are the Filmzzeria Terms & Conditions?
For Filmzzeria Terms & Conditions, please visit our home page.

What are the charges for Filmzzeria?
Filmzzeria is a subscription-based video-on-demand streaming service with 3 price plans:Basic $11.98/month for standard definition and 1 concurrent screen, Standard $15.98/month for high definition and 2 concurrent screens and Premium $19.98/month for ultra-high definition and 4 concurrent screens. New users of Filmzzeria and rejoining customers who cancelled their service for more than 10 months can sign-up to enjoy 1 free month of trial and can cancel anytime without long-term contracts or cancellation fees.

How fast does my Internet need to be to stream content on Filmzzeria?
The minimum required connection speed is 0.5Mbps, but you may want a faster connection for improved video quality.The recommended Internet download speed per stream are as follows: 0.5 Mbps - Required broadband connection speed, 1.5 Mbps - Recommended broadband connection speed, 3.0 Mbps - Recommended for SD quality, 5.0 Mbps - Recommended for HD quality and 25 Mbps - Recommended for Ultra HD quality

How many devices can I use Filmzzeria on at the same time?
The number of devices that may be allowed to watch simultaneously will depend on your membership plan.Plans that let you watch on 1, 2, or 4 screens at the same time
Each filmzzeria plan determines the number of devices you can watch filmzzeria on at the same time and if you prefer to view in Standard Definition (SD), High Definition (HD), or Ultra High Definition (UHD).

Can I watch Filmzzeria on my Smart TV?
Filmzzeria Premium and Filmzzeria VIP subscribers can enjoy the content on the big screen. You can watch Filmzzeria on your TV using Google Chromecast gen 2 onwards, Fire TV, Apple TV gen 4 onwards. You can also use our app on Android TVs with TV OS 7.0 or above, LG WebOS 4.0 or above and Samsung Smart TVs manufactured 2018 onwards. We plan to support more smart TV apps in the near future. Watch out our website for updates!

How am I getting billed for my subscription?
Filmzzeria membership is a recurring subscription service. Membership charges are billed at the beginning of each billing period. Membership charges for the Filmzzeria VIP, Filmzzeria Premium Monthly, and Filmzzeria Premium Annual plan are non-refundable.If you would like to know your billing cycle or view payment history, please visit the My Account section.Subscribers with in-app purchases on iTunes should check their payment history and renewal dates on iTunes.

What are the different payment methods available for the membership?
We currently support recurring subscription through credit cards, iTunes subscriptions and select debit cards.Membership through credit cards, Membership through iTunes and Membership through Paytm.

Are charges inclusive of taxes?
Yes, your membership charges are inclusive of taxes.

How do I review my payment history on Filmzzeria?
You can see your billing history by clicking on 'View Transactions' in My Account section. You will also be able to access invoices for all successful payments from this section.iTunes subscribers can see their payment history on iTunes.

Why is my latest payment not visible in My Account?
Payments take about a week to reflect in the account section. While that does not affect your billing period and video viewing privileges as long as your payment has gone through successfully, the transactions may take a few days to reflect in the My Account section.

I'm seeing charges from Filmzzeria that I did not authorize. What are these?
If you do not recognize charges coming from Filmzzeria or if you suspect someone else is using your payment information, please contact us immediately at hello@filmzzeria.com. We take fraud, identity theft and other unauthorized access very seriously.

How do I access my Account?
You need to Sign In on Filmzzeria and then click on 'My Account' from the menu to access your account details.You can view your registered email address and billing dates in the My Account section. You can also view past transactions.

How can I change/recover my password?
If you have forgotten your password, please click on the Forgot Password link and submit the details. An email will be sent to your email id with the link to change your password.

How can I change/recover my password?
If you have forgotten your password, please click on the Forgot Password link and submit the details. An email will be sent to your email id with the link to change your password.

How can I keep my Filmzzeria account secure?
Use a strong password and do not share it with anyone. Be aware of possible phishing attempts.Remember to sign out if you are accessing premium content on a public computer.

Most Popular Movies Right Now 

Mortal Kombat (2021), Stowaway (2021), Demon Slayer -Kimetsu No Yaiba- The Movie: Mugen Train (2021), Nobody (2021), Love And Monsters (2020), The Father (2021), Godzilla Vs. Kong (2021), Nomadland (2021), Promising Young Woman (2020), The Courier (2020), Together Together (2021), Minari (2020), Thunder Force (2021), Raya And The Last Dragon (2021) and The Mitchells Vs. The Machines (2021) 

Suggest me some movies?  
OK!! Which genre would you like to watch?  

movie suggestions
OK!! Which genre would you like to watch?  

Romance  
Here are some of my favorite movies: Casablanca, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, Titanic, When Harry Met Sally, Gone with the Wind, Slumdog Millionaire and Brokeback Mountain.  

Horror    
Here are some of my favorite movies: Host, Saw, Evil Dead 2, A Nightmare on Elm Street, Shaun of the Dead, Dawn of the Dead and The Birds  

Thriller  
Here are some of my favorite movies: Phone Booth, Unknown Caller, Shutter Island, Memento, Angels & Demons, The Da Vinci Code, Birthday Girl, Deviation  

Mystery 
Here are some of my favorite movies: The Ghost Writer, Incendies, Iron Doors, Shanghai, Shutter Island, The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows, Segunda Mano, Jack Reacher, The Raven, Sinister, Broken City, The Call, Prisoners, Side Effects and Altar  

Action/Crime 
Here are some of my favorite movies: Nobody, The Boys, F9, The Virtuoso, Army of the Dead, The Batman, Prison Break, The Dark Knight and The Gentlemen  

Comedy  
Here are some of my favorite movies: Baywatch, The Hitman's Wife's Bodyguard, The Mask, Bad Boys for Life, Ocean's Eight, Beverly Hills Cop, Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, Kick-Ass, The Hitman's Bodyguard, 21 Jump Street. Osmosis Jones, Spenser Confidential and Now You See Me 2   

Sci-Fi  
Here are some of my favorite movies: The Mitchells vs the Machines, Mortal Kombat, Eternals, Tenet, The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, Stowaway, Godzilla vs. Kong, Wanda Vision, Avengers: Endgame and Star Wars: The Clone Wars   


